# Standardly - Code Generation

## Templates
The Code Generator will scan the Templates folder within the install location of the extension to find all the templates available.

Templates are defined in a `Template.json` file within the following folder structure:
- Templates
  - Api
    - Acceptance
    - Brokers
      - DateTimes
      - LocalEvents
      - Loggings
      - Storages
    - Controllers
    - Data
      - AspNetIdentity
    - Services
      - Foundations
        - Service
        - LocalEventService
    - Infra
      - Build
      - Provision
    - Solution
      - Config
  - Fontend
    - Blazor
      - ... 
      - ...
    - React
      - ...
      - ...

## Template Structure

### Template

```
{
  "name": "BROKERS: Logging Broker",
  "description": "Generates a Logging Broker",
  "templateType": "API",
  "projectsRequired": "Api",
  "sortOrder": 1,
  "modelSingularName": "Logging",
  "modelPluralName": "Loggings",
  "tasks": [],
  "cleanupTasks": []
}  
```
**name**: The name of the template  (Required)

**description**: A descriptoin of the template (Required)

**templateType**: The type of template e.g. API, Blazor, React (Required)

**projectsRequired**": A comma seperated list of consisting of one or more of the following [Api, Build, Provision, Unit, Acceptance]  (Required)
- The code generator will prevent scaffolding of code for a template if your solution does not contain all the required projects for that template

**modelSingularName**: A suggested singular name for the template (Optional)
- If a singular name is present, the value can't be changed.  If absent the user can specify a value. 
  - e.g. LoggingBroker will have always have Logging for singular and Loggings for plural to generate a LoggingBroker while the foundation service template have no modelSingularName OR modelPluralName which will allow the user to specify a singular and plural name for the entity to be used in the foundation service. 

**modelPluralName**: A suggested plural name for the template (Optional)
- If a plural name is present, the value can't be changed.  If absent the user can specify a value.

**tasks**: All the tasks that are required to complete a template.  
- Tasks is equavalent to pull requests e.g. for a BROKER or FOUNDATION service, you would see a task / pull request for each CRUD operation to complete the BROKER or FOUNDATION service.

**cleanupTasks**: A list of tasks that the user must do post template generation

### Tasks

```
"tasks": [
    {
      "name": "001 - BROKERS: Logging - Log Information",
      "actions": [ ]
    }
```
**name**: The name of the task  (Required)
- As templates can consist of multiple tasks, the suggested pattern is to prefix the action with a number correlating to the index so you can easily find the right task in case of validation issues. e.g. if there is a parsing issue, then you can easily locate it as issues will be reportes as template[0].task[3].name required.  

**actions**: All the actions that are required to complete a task.  
- Actions is equavalent to commits e.g. submitting a series of failing and passing tests

### Actions

```
{
  "name": "Add Log Information",
  "executionFolder": "$projectFolder$",
  "fileItems": [
    {
      "template": "$templateFolder$\\Api\\Brokers\\Loggings\\001_ILoggingBroker.cs.txt",
      "target": "$projectFolder$\\$brokers$\\Loggings\\ILoggingBroker.cs",
      "replace": true
    },
    {
      "template": "$templateFolder$\\Api\\Brokers\\Loggings\\001_LoggingBroker.cs.txt",
      "target": "$projectFolder$\\$brokers$\\Loggings\\LoggingBroker.cs",
      "replace": true
    }
  ],
  "executions": [
    {
      "name": "Stage all changes",
      "instruction": "git add -A"
    },
    {
      "name": "Commit staged changes",
      "instruction": "git commit -m \"BROKERS: Logging - Log Information\""
    }
  ]
}
```
**name**: The name of the action  (Required)

**executionFolder**:  The execution folder (Required)
- The execution folder will provide a context for the CLI / powershell commands e.g. where migrations should be added or where node packages will be installed on frontend projects

**fileItems**: A list of files that needs to be generated as part of the action.  (Optional)

**executions**:  A list of CLI / powershell commands that needs to be executed as part of the task.  (Required)

#### Action Rules
- fileItems are optional as not all actions will scaffold files as part of the action e.g. creating a pull request or installing NuGet packages
  - if a file item exist, then all the propeties is considered required on for the file item 
- executions are mandatory and every action must have at least one execution
- all fileItems will be generated before any executions are done
- if an action contains fileItems, and the generator detects that **all** file(s) already exists and `replace` has a value of false, then the whole task will be excluded in that code generation step. It is therefore important to seperate things into various tasks like:
  - Action to create a branch and install required nuget packages  (example of a script only action)
  - Action to add a method to the interface and its concrete implementation e.g. `void LogInformation(string message);` to ILoggingBroker.cs and `public void LogInformation(string message) => ...` to LoggingBroker.cs with CLI execution commands to stage and commit the code (example of combined file and script action)
    - In the case of foundation services, there will be a number of these combined actions between the branching action and pull request e.g. all the passing and failing tests for Logic, Validations and Exceptions
  - Action to create a pull request

This is an example of an action that will only be done once since the replace flag is set to false on all the files. 
- e.g. when we generate the very first storage broker in the project for an entity `Student` the IStorageBroker.cs and StorageBroker.cs will be created, but when you generate a broker for the next entity, the files will NOT be generated again and neither will its executions be done as per the action rules.  This will prevent overriding things that you might have defined in the `protected override void OnModelCreating(ModelBuilder modelBuilder)` method and it will also ensure that there is no duplication on the initial migration that gets done as part of this action.

```
{
  "name": "Add Storgage Broker",
  "executionFolder": "$projectFolder$",
  "fileItems": [
    {
      "template": "$templateFolder$\\Api\\Brokers\\Storages\\001_IStorageBroker.cs.txt",
      "target": "$projectFolder$\\$brokers$\\Storages\\IStorageBroker.cs",
      "replace": false
    },
    {
      "template": "$templateFolder$\\Api\\Brokers\\Storages\\001_StorageBroker.cs.txt",
      "target": "$projectFolder$\\$brokers$\\Storages\\StorageBroker.cs",
      "replace": false
    }
  ],
  "executions": [
    {
      "name": "Add migration",
      "instruction": "dotnet-ef migrations add InitialCreate --project $projectName$"
    },
    {
      "name": "Update Database",
      "instruction": "dotnet-ef database update"
    },
    {
      "name": "Stage all changes",
      "instruction": "git add -A"
    },
    {
      "name": "Commit staged changes",
      "instruction": "git commit -m \"BROKERS: Storage Broker - Add Storage Broker And Initial Migration\""
    },
    {
      "name": "Push changes to <remote>",
      "instruction": "git push origin users/$username$/brokers-storage"
    }
  ]
},
```

### File Items
```
"fileItems": [
    {
      "template": "$templateFolder$\\Api\\Brokers\\Storages\\001_IStorageBroker.cs.txt",
      "target": "$projectFolder$\\$brokers$\\Storages\\IStorageBroker.cs",
      "replace": false
    },
    {
      "template": "$templateFolder$\\Api\\Brokers\\Storages\\001_StorageBroker.cs.txt",
      "target": "$projectFolder$\\$brokers$\\Storages\\StorageBroker.cs",
      "replace": false
    }
  ],
```  
If file items are defined, then the all the values must be supplied.
**template**: The relative path of the template
**target**: The location where the transformed template will be saved
**replace**: true / false value to indicate if existing file may be overridden
  
### Executions
```
{
  "name": "Add migration",
  "instruction": "dotnet-ef migrations add InitialCreate --project $projectName$"
}
```
**name**: The descriptive name of the execution purpose (Required)
**instruction**: The CLI command / Powershell script (Required)
- although we have both a `CliExecutionBroker` and a `PowerShellExecutionBroker.cs` implementation, we are able to do all that is needed via the `CliExecutionBroker` broker.  Should we get to a scenario where a CLI command can't do what we need, we can look at extending `Execution` with an `instructionType` property that can be used in a strategy pattern to support both brokers at the same time.

## Replacement Dictionary
The template uses a `$ $` notation for things that can be subsituted e.g. `$projectName$`

Please refer to the [Replacement Dictionary](3.%20Replacement%20Dictionary.md) for a list of all valid items that can be added to the replacement dictionary.
