# Standardly - Getting Started

## 1) Install instructions
- Install the [GitHub CLI commands](https://cli.github.com/)
- Install the [CLI tools for Entity Framework Core](https://docs.microsoft.com/en-us/ef/core/cli/dotnet)
- Install .Net 7.0 ([Get .NET 7 Preview](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download/visual-studio-sdks))
- Install the the extension from the [Visual Studio Marketplace](https://marketplace.visualstudio.com/items?itemName=cjdutoit.Standardly)

## 2) Configuration
To work with the Code Generator, you will need to add some config (or you will need to complete this every time).

In Visual Studio, go to TOOLS > OPTIONS > Standardly and complete 
- Display Name 
- Your GitHub Username
- Default Base Branch Name (By default GitHub uses main, if yours is master, you can change this by running the following command `git config --global init.defaultBranch main`)

Copyright and License are set to MIT License by default.  You can change this if you want smething else.  (This will only be applied to new projects via the .editorconfig file and will not override the license file or copyright for other projects.)

## 3) Creating your project
### Using the Multi-Project Template
3.1 Open Visual Studio and choose "Create a new project"
3.2 In the Create a new project window, search for "Standardly" and select the Standardly - Multi Project Template.
You will now see skeleton projects for the following:
- $solution name%.Api
- $solution name%.Api.Infrastructure.Build
- $solution name%.Api.Infrastructure.Provision
- $solution name%.Api.Tests.Acceptance
- $solution name%.Api.Tests.Unit

(By design there will NOT be any folder / placeholders for things that are not there yet i.e. Services.  Theses will be later via the code generation tool.)

3.3 Add your project to GitHub as the Standardly will commit code for the various steps i.e. with services the failing and then the passing tests followed by a Pull Request when all tasks are done. 

### Using the Code Generator
3.4 We are now ready to start generating the code.  You can get to the Code Generator by either selecting a project in Solution Explorer, right click > Add > Standardly Code Generator OR once a project is in focus, using CTRL + SHIFT + F4

3.5 Now that the Code Generator is open we want to generate code for $solution name%.Api.Infrastructure.Build
3.5.1 From the Template Drop Down, choose "INFRA: Setup Infrastructure Build Project"
3.5.2 As we have done the config already there is no other things left to complete other than checking the boxes under "Legal Stuff"
3.5.3 Once all the mandatory items is completed, click on the "Generate Code From Template" button.  This will add the code to the Program.cs file in the build project, commit the code to GitHub and create a Pull Request.
3.5.6 Open GitHub and review the Pull Request and if you are satisfied, merger the code

3.6
